Password Attacks
Passwords are the most basic form of
user account and service authentication.
By extension, the goal of a password
attack is to discover
and use valid credentials in order to
gain access to a user account or service.
In general terms, there are a few common
approaches to password attacks.
We can either make attempts at guessing
a password through a dictionary attack
using various wordlists or we can brute
force
every possible character in a password.
In general, a dictionary attack
prioritizes speed,
offering less password coverage,
while brute force prioritizes password
coverage at the expense of speed.
Both techniques can be used
effectively during an engagement,
depending on our priorities and
time requirements.
In some cases, once we gain (usually
privileged) access to a target
and we’re able to extract password
hashes,
we can leverage password cracking attacks
that seek to gain access
to the cleartext password, or
Pass-the-Hash attacks,
which allow us to authenticate to a
Windows-based target
using only a username and the hash.
In this module, we’ll discuss each of
these concepts
and techniques in more detail
and demonstrate how they can be
leveraged in various attack scenarios.